
Rev 21:1 Then I saw a new heaven and a new earth; the first heaven and the first earth had disappeared now,
and there was no longer any sea.
   Rev 21:2 I saw the holy city, the new Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride
dressed for her husband.


Rev 21:3 Then I heard a loud voice call from the throne, 'Look, here God lives among human beings. He will
make his home among them; they will be his people, and he will be their God, God-with-them.   
Rev 21:4 He will wipe away all tears from their eyes; there will be no more death, and no more mourning or
sadness or pain. The world of the past has gone.'


Rev 21:5 Then the One sitting on the throne spoke. 'Look, I am making the whole of creation new. Write this,
"What I am saying is trustworthy and will come true."



Rev 21:6 Then he said to me, 'It has already happened. I am the Alpha and the Omega, the Beginning and the
End. I will give water from the well of life free to anybody who is thirsty;
Rev 21:7 anyone who proves victorious will inherit these things; and I will be his God and he will be my son.
Rev 21:8 But the legacy for cowards, for those who break their word, or worship obscenities, for murderers and
the sexually immoral, and for sorcerers, worshippers of false gods or any other sort of liars, is the second death
in the burning lake of sulphur.'
Rev 21:9 One of the seven angels that had the seven bowls full of the seven final plagues came to speak to me
and said, 'Come here and I will show you the bride that the Lamb has married.'
   Rev 21:10 In the spirit, he carried me to the top of a very high mountain, and showed me Jerusalem, the holy
city, coming down out of heaven from God.
Rev 21:11 It had all the glory of God and glittered like some precious jewel of crystal-clear diamond.
Rev 21:12 Its wall was of a great height and had twelve gates; at each of the twelve gates there was an angel,
and over the gates were written the names of the twelve tribes of Israel;
Rev 21:13 on the east there were three gates, on the north three gates, on the south three gates, and on the
west three gates.
  Rev 21:14 The city walls stood on twelve foundation stones, each one of which bore the name of one of the
twelve apostles of the Lamb.
Rev 21:15 The angel that was speaking to me was carrying a gold measuring rod to measure the city and its
gates and wall.
Rev 21:16 The plan of the city is perfectly square, its length the same as its breadth. He measured the city with
his rod and it was twelve thousand furlongs, equal in length and in breadth, and equal in height.
Rev 21:17 He measured its wall, and this was a hundred and forty-four cubits high -- by human measurements.
Rev 21:18 The wall was built of diamond, and the city of pure gold, like clear glass.
Rev 21:19 The foundations of the city wall were faced with all kinds of precious stone: the first with diamond, the
second lapis lazuli, the third turquoise, the fourth crystal,
  Rev 21:20 the fifth agate, the sixth ruby, the seventh gold quartz, the eighth malachite, the ninth topaz, the tenth
emerald, the eleventh sapphire and the twelfth amethyst.
Rev 21:21 The twelve gates were twelve pearls, each gate being made of a single pearl, and the main street of
the city was pure gold, transparent as glass.
Rev 21:22 I could not see any temple in the city since the Lord God Almighty and the Lamb were themselves
the temple,
Rev 21:23 and the city did not need the sun or the moon for light, since it was lit by the radiant glory of God, and
the Lamb was a lighted torch for it.   
Rev 21:24 The nations will come to its light and the kings of the earth will bring it their treasures.
Rev 21:25 Its gates will never be closed by day -- and there will be no night there-
Rev 21:26 and the nations will come, bringing their treasure and their wealth.
Rev 21:27 Nothing unclean may come into it: no one who does what is loathsome or false, but only those who
are listed in the Lamb's book of life.

Rev 22:1 Then the angel showed me the river of life, rising from the throne of God and of the Lamb and flowing
crystal-clear.
Rev 22:2 Down the middle of the city street, on either bank of the river were the trees of life, which bear twelve
crops of fruit in a year, one in each month, and the leaves of which are the cure for the nations.
Rev 22:3 The curse of destruction will be abolished. The throne of God and of the Lamb will be in the city; his
servants will worship him,
Rev 22:4 they will see him face to face, and his name will be written on their foreheads.
Rev 22:5 And night will be abolished; they will not need lamplight or sunlight, because the Lord God will be
shining on them. They will reign for ever and ever.
Rev 22:6 The angel said to me, 'All that you have written is sure and will come true: the Lord God who inspires
the prophets has sent his angel to reveal to his servants what is soon to take place.
Rev 22:7 I am coming soon!' Blessed are those who keep the prophetic message of this book.
 Rev 22:8 I, John, am the one who heard and saw these things. When I had heard and seen them all, I knelt at
the feet of the angel who had shown them to me, to worship him;
Rev 22:9 but he said, 'Do no such thing: I am your fellow-servant and the fellow-servant of your brothers the
prophets and those who keep the message of this book. God alone you must worship.'
Rev 22:10 This, too, he said to me, 'Do not keep the prophecies in this book a secret, because the Time is
close.
Rev 22:11 Meanwhile let the sinner continue sinning, and the unclean continue to be unclean; let the upright
continue in his uprightness, and those who are holy continue to be holy.
Rev 22:12 Look, I am coming soon, and my reward is with me, to repay everyone as their deeds deserve.
Rev 22:13 I am the Alpha and the Omega, the First and the Last, the Beginning and the End.
Rev 22:14 Blessed are those who will have washed their robes clean, so that they will have the right to feed on
the tree of life and can come through the gates into the city.
Rev 22:15 Others must stay outside: dogs, fortune-tellers, and the sexually immoral, murderers, idolaters, and
everyone of false speech and false life.'
Rev 22:16 I, Jesus, have sent my angel to attest these things to you for the sake of the churches. I am the sprig
from the root of David and the bright star of the morning.
Rev 22:17 The Spirit and the Bride say, 'Come!' Let everyone who listens answer, 'Come!' Then let all who are
thirsty come: all who want it may have the water of life, and have it free.
Rev 22:18 This is my solemn attestation to all who hear the prophecies in this book: if anyone adds anything to
them, God will add to him every plague mentioned in the book;
Rev 22:19 if anyone cuts anything out of the prophecies in this book, God will cut off his share of the tree of life
and of the holy city, which are described in the book.
Rev 22:20 The one who attests these things says: I am indeed coming soon; amen; come, Lord Jesus.
Rev 22:21 May the grace of the Lord Jesus be with you all. Amen.